=pod

=head1 NAME

Form::Tiny::Manual::Compatibility - backward compatibility notice

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation page is listing all non-backward compatible changes in usage of Form::Tiny, together with recipes on how to fix them.

=head1 CHANGES

=head2 Filtered forms no longer trim strings by default

I<Changed in 2.00>

In the past, declaring a form as filtered caused it to trim strings by default before validation.

This behavior was removed due to difficulty in designing a sane interface that would allow opting out of it. An exception of inline forms (L<Form::Tiny::Inline>) was introduced, which still trim by default when declared to be capable of filtering.

As this behavior is often needed, a keyword was introduced that allows to enable it in a form:

	use Form::Tiny -filtered;
	form_trim_strings;

=head2 Sub-based form fields are resolved dynamically

I<Changed in 2.00>

In version I<2.00> a field definition which is built by a subroutine is called a dynamic field, since it cannot be resolved in the form metaclass due to access to form object as its first argument. Due to changes on where the field definitions are stored, these subroutines are no longer ran once for each form object, but rather multiple times, possibly even during a single validation process.

This behavior is more correct, as class fields which you can access might change between validations, and old field building would not take it into account. However, it also means that subroutines that build form fields B<must not> to contain any form of non-determinism (like random number generation) or (to less degree) something variable in time (like datetime or access to busy database entries).

=head2 Dynamic (sub-based) form fields need to return a name

I<Changed in 2.00>

Previously, this syntax was allowed:

	form_field 'my_field' => sub {
		return {
			type => Int,
		};
	};

Due to changes on how form_field handles its arguments and how fields are resolved, this now only accepts a subroutine reference, which in turn has to return name explicitly:

	form_field sub {
		return {
			name => 'my_field',
			type => Int,
		};
	};

=head2 Hooks system has been overhauled

I<Changed in 2.00>

Previously, hooks were just a primitive system based on method overriding:

	sub pre_validate
	{
		my ($self, $data) = @_;

		...; # actual hook code
		return $data;
	}

This system was hard to handle and often buggy due to roles not copying methods over rather than actual method resolution. It was replaced by a new, much more powerful system:

	form_hook before_validate => sub {
		my ($self, $data) = @_;

		...; # actual hook code
		return $data;
	};

In the process, C<pre> word in hooks names became C<before>, multiple hooks became possible, and new hooks were added.

=head2 Field names now need double backslash escaping

I<Changed in 2.00>

Previously, backslash C<\> could only be used in field names before the dot C<.> to avoid its meaning of nesting operator. There was no way to escape a star C<*> to have it as a literal hash key name rather than meaning an array.

It has been changed so that backslash escapes every special character in field names. This means that a backslash must be escaped by another backslash to have a literal backslash:

	form_field '\\.'; # a literal dot
	form_field '\\\\.'; # syntax error - a literal backslash followed by a nesting separator
	form_field '\\\\\\.'; # a literal backslash followed by a literal dot

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Form::Tiny::Manual>

=back
